cancer cells are addicted to
carbohydrates they intake 200 times more
glucose than normal cells this is
needing many experts in the Cancer
Treatment Community to consider how
nutritional approaches like the
ketogenic diet can Aid patients in
defeating their disease evidence shows
using a ketogenic diet can create an
unfavorable metabolic environment for
cancer that goes beyond simply starving
the disease of glucose in this video we
review The observed anti-cancer
mechanisms of Keto and consider how it
fits into a cancer treatment
plan hello I Alina Ivanova the medical
director of personalized
medicine overall in the last few years
we have been saturated with the news
about celebrities athletes and media
personalities describing their
experiences using the ketogenic diet
most people use it for weight loss but
the fact is the ketogenic diet has been
an important medical intervention since
the early
1900s documents recovered from the
Hippocratic Collections show that
medical practitioners from as far back
as the fth century BC used fasting to
treat epilepsy as it was the only
effective therapeutic at that time the
use of fasting continued into the mod
times until in the 1920s researchers
from Harvard and Mayo began to
experiment with high fat low
carbohydrate dieses that would mimic the
effects of fasting after 2 years of
successful trials the ketogenic diet was
introduced as a standard treatment for
epilepsy particularly in children
unfortunately in the 1940s this medical
approach faded in use as an
anti-epilepsy medications became the
preferred prescription by most
doctors however the efforts of the
Charlie Foundation have renewed interest
in using the ketogenic diet for diseases
Jim Abrahams a Hollywood writer and
producer and his wife Nancy were
desperate to find a solution for their
11mon old son's epilepsy the multitude
of medications prescribed by doctors was
causing severe side effects and not
reducing his seur they luckily found a
book b in a library written by John's
Hopkins doctors that described using the
ketogenic diet going keto worked their
son Charlie became seizure-free within a
month now Charlie is in his 20s and has
not had a seizure since then motivated
by their success of using nutrition to
heal their son the Abrahams founded the
Charlie foundation in 1994 to help
improve research and a awareness into
ketogenic diets their efforts helped to
encourage over 1,000 studies that
consider the anti cancer benefits of the
ketogenic diet the ketogenic diet often
referred to as keto or simply KD is a
large departure from the typical Western
diet which derives 50% of calories from
carbohydrates KD meal plants can have a
carbohydrate range from 4 to 7 % making
the majority of the caloric intake from
fats trading carbs for fats shifts how
the body produces energy when we eat
carbohydrates our body converts it into
glucose the presence of glucose in the
bloodstream stimulates the pancreas to
release insulin which allows glucose to
enter cells providing energy now with
typical Western Di es that have high
carbohydrate and sugar intake the
pancreas increasingly secretes more
insulin which promotes the interaction
of growth hormone receptors and growth
hormones to produce insulin like growth
factor one in the liver promoting cell
growth and proliferation which can be
detrimental to patients with cancer in
fact overexpression of glucose
Transporters also occurs in many Cancers
and especially in aggressive tumors we
see this when tumors light up during a
pat scan remember cancer cells usually
consume 200 times more glucose than
normal
cells however when glucose is scarce
like when using the ketogenic diet the
body senses the need to make an
alternative form of energy for cells the
liver then produces keton and fatty
acids which provide energy for normal
cells but ketones cannot be used by
cancer cells because of their damaged
mitochondria KD helps to starve cancer
cells of their primary fuel source most
Studies have shown that the ketogenic
diet slow tumor growth delayed the
initiation of tumors prolong the
survival rate revers cancer induced
pexia which is extreme weight loss and
muscle wasting and also increase the
tumor response to standard treatments
like chemo and radiation additionally KD
appears to greatly improve efficacy of
targeted therapies like pi3k
Inhibitors while KD exploits metabolic
weakness in cancer it has also shown to
provide other anti-cancer benefits here
are some of the most commonly observed
anti-cancer mechanisms and
actions so anti-inflammatory
effects tumors often produce
inflammation in the body to trigger a
number of activities that helped the
cancer to grow and spread these
activities include tumar Genesis which
is converting normal cells into
cancerous cells tumor growth and
proliferation metastasis as well as
enabling cancers to be resistant to
standard treatments like chemo ketogenic
diet shows the ability to reduce
pro-inflammatory cyto kindes thus
contributing to prevention of tumor
progression suppression of key enzymes
is another category cancer cells have
been shown to overexpress enzymes like
cyoas and Matrix metaloproteinases to
influence tumor progression and
migration evidence shows that keto diets
can make an impact by helping to
normalize the expression of these
enzymes while many studies show that a
ketogenic diet could be a helpful
component in a cancer fighting treatment
plan it should be noted that cancer
cells have the metabolic flexibility to
use alternative fuel sources when access
to glucose is restricted experts
acknowledge that cancers May derive
energy from amino acids like glutamine
studies suggest there are safe
medications and supplements that can be
used to further starve cancer of glucose
and restrict access to amino acids you
can find a link to a video in the
description that goes into detail about
metabolic cancer therapies the aim to
starve cancer of
resources now to summarize what we
discussed about the ketogenic diet
substantially reducing carbohydrate
intake activates producing ketones and
fatty acids that normal cells can
process for
energy cancer cells cannot effectively
process ketones for energy ketogenic
diets limit the production of glucose
starving cancer cells over primary fuel
source KD can reduce inflammation and
overexpression of enzy enzymes that are
used by cancer cells to grow and spread
in addition to KD other steps can be
taken to assault other metabolic
dependencies of cancer particularly its
use of amino acids nutrition is an often
overlooked aspect of fighting disease
our bodies require fuel to power the
immune system to fight against cancer
yes keto diets show promise but they're
not necessarily the best approach for
every person situation alternatively
using a less extreme low carb diet or
intermittent fasting could be a better
match for some to get the best results
be sure to collaborate with a licensed
Medical Professional to establish a
personalized nutritional plan if you are
interested in learning more about
metabolic cancer therapies we welcome
you to schedule a call by accessing the
link in the description as always check
out the description to find links to the
referenced articles and other sources
that could be helpful we hope you found
this information useful if so please
like the video and choose to share it
with others that can benefit we thank
you for watching and we wish you the
best of health stay strong and
informed